OU search: per-year tables
==========================

This functionality document describes the new 'per-year tables' feature, not
the entire plugin.

Database structure overview
---------------------------

OU search uses three tables: documents, words, and occurrences.
* The words table is an index between all words ever encountered in the system
  and 32-bit integers.
* The documents table is a list of everything searchable (for example a forum
  post counts as a document; a version of a wiki page counts as a document;
  one page of a Structured Content document counts as a document).
* The occurrences table is a relation between documents and words; it lists
  all the words that occur in each document (and how many times).

Current situation and summary of change
---------------------------------------

We are currently experiencing some performance problems related to the large
size of the occurrences table. As a result, we have implemented a feature
which splits this table by year. This is based on the course start date, so
all data for a course that starts in 2014 will be in the 2014 table.

This feature is optional. If you do not turn it on in the admin settings,
behaviour should be unchanged.

New database structure
----------------------

* We are creating 10 new occurrences and documents tables for each year from
  2011 (the first year in which this system was used) through to 2020.
  - Each table definition is the same as the current table, with the same
    indexes.
  - Names are e.g. local_ousearch_occurs_2011 and local_ousearch_docs_2011.
* If the search system is used with any start date prior to 2011, it will use
  the 2011 tables.
* If the search system is used with any start date after 2020, it will throw
  an exception.
* If the search system is used with any start date in 2020, a debugging message
  will appear (to give a one-year warning that you need to add more tables if
  it's still in use).
* An additional table local_ousearch_courseyears keeps track of what year each
  course is (this is only used to track when the start date of a course
  changes, and not during normal usage).

New admin settings
------------------

1. Enable per-year tables

If this setting is not turned on, then the system will continue to use a single
table.

The setting has the following states:
* Off (still using single table).
* Transferring data
* On (all data transferred).

The administrator can switch it from Off to Transferring, but cannot switch it
off again. The system itself may switch it later from Transferring to On.

This setting displays progress (as a percentage of websites that have been
updated) once you have turned it on.

2. Year table split time

Controls the amount of time to spend per cron run transferring data from the
old table to the new table. (Note that the frequency and timing of these cron
runs can be scheduled using the general task settings.)

The default option is 10 minutes.

3. Year table change date time

Controls the maximum amount of time to spend per cron run transferring data
between years in cases where somebody changes the start date of a course.

The default option is 10 minutes.

Enabling the system
-------------------

When you enable that system, over a number of cron runs the search data will
gradually be copied into the new tables.

THINGS TO CHECK BEFORE ENABLING THE SYSTEM:

1. Data is deleted from the old tables only when the entire process is complete
   (all courses have been moved). At this point the old tables will be truncated.
   This implies that extra database space is required during the enabling process.
   For example, if your local_ousearch tables total 30GB, you will need an extra
   30GB or more of free space in order to hold the copied data. The space will be
   freed up once the system is completely enabled.

2. Ensure you have no courses with start dates later than 2019. Such courses may
   cause the transfer process to stall or fail.

During the transfer process, users should still be able to search and also to
add and edit searchable content at all points. If a course has not yet been
completely transferred, searching works using the old tables. Once a course has
been completely transferred, searching (and data adding etc.) works with the
new tables.

Creating new courses
--------------------

There should be no change to system behaviour when creating new courses.
Search should work for all content added to the new course, and the data
should transparently be stored in the relevant tables depending on the start
year of the course.

If you try to create a course with start date from 2020 onward, you may see a
warning or the creation may fail. When this system is enabled, we don't support
courses starting from 2020 onward.

Restoring courses
-----------------

There should be no change to system behaviour when restoring courses or rolling
them forward. Search should continue to operate on the restored course.

If you try to restore a course with start date from 2020 onward, you may see a
warning or the creation may fail. When this system is enabled, we don't support
courses starting from 2020 onward.

Changing course dates
---------------------

When this system is enabled, you should avoid changing the start date of any
course to a different year, if that course contains searchable content.

Changing a start date to a different year will cause search to temporarily
break for that course (it will not find anything). The cron process that
handles this will gradually move search data into the new year, so the search
facility will eventually be restored.
